The President:
This week, I joined leaders from around the world at the United
Nations and the G-20 economic
summit in Pittsburgh.
Today, I can report
on what we achieved --
a new commitment to
meet common challenges,
and real progress in advancing
America's national security and
economic prosperity.
As I said at the U.N., over
the past nine months my
administration has renewed
American leadership,
and pursued a new era of
engagement in which we call upon
all nations to live up to
their responsibilities.
This week, our engagement
produced tangible results in
several areas.
In Pittsburgh, the world's major
economies agreed to continue our
efforts to spur global demand
to put our people back to work.
We committed ourselves to
economic growth that is balanced
and sustained -- so we avoid
the booms and busts of the past.
We reached an historic agreement
to reform the global financial
system -- to promote responsibility and prevent abuse
so that we never face a
crisis like this again.
And we reformed our
international economic
architecture, so that we can
better coordinate our efforts to
meet the challenges
of the 21st century.
We also established American
leadership in the global pursuit
of the clean energy
of the 21st century.
I am proud that the G-20 nations
agreed to phase out $300 billion
worth of fossil fuel subsidies.
This will increase
our energy security,
reduce greenhouse gas emissions,
combat the threat of climate
change, and help create the
new jobs and industries of the future.
In New York, we advanced the
cause of peace and security.
I joined the first meeting
between Israeli and Palestinian
leaders in nearly a year -- a meeting that even nine months
ago did not seem possible.
And we resolved to move forward
in the journey towards a just,
lasting and comprehensive
peace in the Middle East.
We also took unprecedented
steps to secure loose nuclear
materials; to stop the
spread of nuclear weapons;
and to seek a
world without them.
As the first U.S. president
to ever chair a meeting of the
United Nations Security Council, I was proud that the Council
passed a historic and unanimous
resolution embracing the
comprehensive strategy I
outlined this year in Prague.
To prevent nuclear weapons
from falling into the hands of
terrorists, the Security Council
endorsed our global effort to
lock down all vulnerable
material within four years.
We reaffirmed the basic compact
of the global nonproliferation
regime: all nations have the
right to peaceful nuclear
energy; nations with nuclear
weapons have the responsibility
to move toward disarmament; and
nations without them have the
responsibility to forsake them.
The United States is meeting our
responsibilities by pursuing an
agreement with Russia to reduce
our strategic warheads and launchers.
And just as we meet
our responsibilities,
so must other nations,
including Iran and North Korea.
Earlier this year, we imposed tough new sanctions on North
Korea to stop their efforts
to develop weapons of mass destruction.
And we will continue to stand
with our allies and partners to
press North Korea to
move in a new direction.
This week, we joined with the
United Kingdom and France in
presenting evidence that Iran
has been building a secret
nuclear facility
to enrich uranium.
This is a serious challenge
to the global nonproliferation
regime, and continues a
disturbing pattern of Iranian evasion.
That's why international
negotiations with Iran scheduled
for October 1st now
take on added urgency.
My offer of a serious,
meaningful dialogue to resolve
this issue remains open.
But Iran must now cooperate
fully with the International
Atomic Energy Agency, and
take action to demonstrate its
peaceful intentions.
On this, the international
community is more united than
ever before.
Yesterday, I stood
shoulder-to-shoulder with our
European allies in
condemning Iran's program.
In our meetings and
public statements,
President Medvedev of Russia and
I agreed that Iran must pursue a
new course or face consequences.
All of the permanent members
of the United Nations Security
Council, and Germany, have made
it clear that Iran must fulfill
its responsibilities.
Iran's leaders must now choose
-- they can live up to their
responsibilities and achieve
integration with the community
of nations.
Or they will face increased
pressure and isolation,
and deny opportunity
to their own people.
These are the urgent
threats of our time.
And the United States is
committed to a new chapter of
international
cooperation to meet them.
This new chapter will not be
written in one week or even one year.
But we have begun.
And for the American people
and the people of the world,
it will mean greater security
and prosperity for years to come.